In this lecture we're going to learn how to draw the human head in a profile view.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing I'd like to do when I'm drawing ahead is I always start off with the circle because
that's the basic shape of the human head.
So I want to go ahead and draw that in like So next we're going to do is I'm going to go ahead and added
my jaw lines so my jaw line is going to be down here about like so and so then we're going to bring
it up like this and we're going to go ahead and bring that across the front like so and sort of curve
it.
So we need to draw this basic shape with a circle and then sort of a curved trap Azcue type of shape
down here at the bottom for my jawline and my chin next I'm going to go ahead and add in my neck so
the neck is going to come in just a little bit underneath this curve right here on the back of the head.
Go ahead and add that in like so.
And then this part is going to start about there.
And depending on whether you're doing a guy or girl or how muscular your character is that's going to
determine how thick your neck will be.
Next we're going to go ahead and find out where the middle of this face is so we know where to put our
eyes.
So I'm thinking right about here is where my eye should be.
All right.
Perfect.
Next I'm going to go ahead and find my two thirds point.
So we're going to go ahead and find the two thirds point down here and then find the ONE-THIRD point
right about there.
Maybe a little bit lower just like so.
So now I know my nose and my lips are going to go and my eyes next.
We want to go ahead and draw the profile contouring line shape of the head.
So starting right here we're going to start with the brows.
So we want to come in just a little bit from this line we've already drawn and then we're going to pop
that out like so.
And depending on what your character looks like that's going to determine how that Brown needs to be
shaped.
If it's a guy the brow might be a little bit bigger and protrude a little bit more meaning it'll come
out a little bit more.
And if it's a girl I might be less strong.
So let's go ahead and draw that in.
And then it's going to come up and curve up into the top of the head like so.
So now we have our borowe next.
Let's go ahead and add the nose so the nose is going to just come off like so.
And a lot of people have the misconception that it's like the number seven.
And that's because the number seven is kind of the basic shape of a nose you can actually sketch in
the number seven upside down.
If you want to and use that as a base but then you want to take that a little bit further.
So you have the top off of the nose and then you want to go ahead and add in this face right here which
is sort of the not the bottom face but it's sort of an under face of the nose.
And then that needs to come around and curve in to the lips like so and then we can go ahead and add
in those nostrils so I'm going to go ahead and add in a curved line underneath there like so.
And then you can at the top of the nostril just like this.
And then let's go ahead and add in the lips so the lips start at the top of the nose and then they're
going to go ahead and just come down and curve like so down to where your lips need to be.
And since this is a guy we're going to make his chin a little bit bigger by bringing his lips up just
a little bit.
So we're going to start at the top of lips right here and we'll go ahead and add the bottom part of
the lips right there in the bottom part of the lips are basically just going to be almost like a raindrop
shape.
Then the top of them are going to be sort of like a triangle like so.
And then we can go ahead and add in that shin.
So there's the other part of the mouth that comes in like so and then the bottom part of the chin is
going to go ahead and protrude out like this.
And then we can go ahead and finish drawing in our jaw line.
So it's going to come all the way across like so so the bottom part is a straight part and then it curves
as it gets underneath the ear.
And then we're going to go ahead and bring that up into the ear which then we need to find out where
that needs to be placed so that it needs to be placed a little bit over from the middle of the head.
So probably right about here is where we need to place it and then we can go ahead and draw that ear
in.
So it's going to be on that line
and we want to make sure that it's just lined up with the the top of the ice at the top of the eye will
be about there.
So that needs to stop about there.
So now we can go ahead and draw that in.
And at the bottom of that it needs to line up with the bottom of the nose.
So I apologize for not marking those before we got started but the ear needs to start.
Some are about done here and some are up here.
So now we can go ahead and draw that in
then we can go ahead and add in some of the detail for that ear.
All right.
Great.
So now we have your let's go ahead and move on to adding the OB Now the I from a side view is different
from an eye from the front view.
Basically you slice your eye in half with a curved line.
So if this is or regular I like so let me have the cornea and the pupil.
Well if you're looking at this from the side you'd basically slice it with a curved line.
Now this isn't exact but that's basically what we're doing.
So let me show you what I mean.
So the eye needs to come in just a little bit further just barely past this edge of the nose so we can
sort of I'm right about there and we're going to go ahead and try a curved line like this and then we're
going to go ahead and start drawing in the shape of our eyes.
So the shape of our eyes is going to start at the same level at the top of our ear is on and we're going
to go ahead and draw it in like so.
So there's a top of our eye that we need to do.
The bottom of our eye which is basically going to be a straight line coming off and it might be a little
bit slanted and then we can go ahead and draw the colored part of our eye.
So that's going to be an oval basically like so that we're going to go ahead and add in our eyebrows
so I'm going to add in my eyebrow right about there.
And since this is going to be a guy the eyebrow is going to be a lot bigger and thicker so and then
I'm going to go ahead and add in my hair.
So the hairline is going to start about there on this character and then it's going to come down like
so.
And if we're looking at the hairline from side view this is what it does.
He comes back like this.
And then there's sort of a rectangle right here.
And then that rectangle turns into her sideburns like so and then this comes around behind the head
and then comes down the neck and then that's our hairline.
Now we can go ahead and create what ever type of shape we want for the hair.
So I'm going to go ahead and create sort of a slicked back hair type of look.
She's like so and the hair isn't always pressed right up against the school so you can have this come
out quite a bit away from the school shape.
And because this is a meal we can go ahead and add in a pretty strong Adam's apple.
So first off are going to have a line that kind of comes off her jawline like so and then it's going
to turn into our Adam's apple so adding that Adam's apple right there.
And then we're going to go ahead and have that come down.
Now we also want to add a little bit of muscle into the neck.
And so there's a very large muscle that goes right here that extends across the whole neck and we can
even thicken our neck like so because I think this guy should be a little bit bigger.
All right.
Great.
Now we can go ahead and erase away some of these guidelines and then we can start adding in some highlights
and shadows and more detail to make us look more realistic.
So let's go ahead and get started with that.
So first off I'm going to Durkan in my eye and it might even reshape it just a little bit.
It was coming off a little bit straighter and then I'm going to go ahead and answer shadow underneath
the eye because this is a format and the light is coming from the top so it's going to be creating some
shadow underneath there.
And I'm going to go ahead and start adding some detail for the cheek bone.
So the guy a cheek bone is very prominent on the front side like so there's going to be a little bit
of prominence on the side of the cheek bone but most of it is going to be right here in the front.
And I might have that little bit too dark.
Go ahead and move on to the nose.
We want to had some shadow on the bottom side of the nose and then we can go ahead and add some darkening
into the eyebrows just like so
and we can also add a little bit more of an eyelid on the bottom side of his eye.
So so and maybe a little bit more shadow underneath here and then that.
Also we want to make sure that we add in some more form on the edge of his head.
And then let's go ahead and move on to the lips so the top of the lips are going to get so shallow that
we're going to see a little bit of this edge right here from the side of the mouth.
And then I can also add shadow on the underside of the bottom lip just like so
and I'm going to go ahead and add some shadow to the bottom side of this jaw line because as a Curves
underneath there's going to be some shadow
side.
So then we can bring this shadow from his cheekbone further down into his face all the way down into
here.
Then we can go ahead and draw his ear in just a little bit darker and some more detail in there.
And then ran out of shadow underneath this year.
So you also have some shadowing on his neck muscle and underneath his Adam's apple a little bit of shadow
here.
Also want to keep that pretty light without very hard edges.
And now we can go ahead and detail in his hair.
So I'm just going to quickly add in some minds for his hair slicked back.
So it's pretty simple.
Then on his sideburns it might be a lot shorter hair something to add those short hairs.
Continue to sweat his hair back all the way to the back of his head or his hair might get a little bit
shorter.
Perfect.
So now drawn a male face from the profile of you hope you really learned something from this lecture.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next one.
We're we're going to go ahead and learn how to draw each individual part of the face.
So we're going to learn how to draw the eye the nose the lips and the ear as well as how to draw hair.
Thanks for watching.
And I really look forward to seeing you in that next lecture.